[TIL on May 23rd, 2022](../TIL/2022/05-23-2022.md)
# **POSIX CLI1 review**

### Why we have to learn about CLI?
- Language is very efficient communication method
- GUI makes users to study less but it's not efficient enough
- Relatively, CLI uses less resources on a computer

### What is POSIX?
- POSIX(Portable Operating System Interface)
- Be able to utilize Unix, MacOS, linux and etc
- Windows and mobile OS are not applicable

### Environment for POSIX CLI
- Unix, Linux and MacOS don't require anything
- Windows, Android, and iOS need emulator
- Connect to 'POSIX Server' through 'Secure Shell'
- Git Bash is included in Git

### Purpose of this [lecture](#references)
- The subject is a file; the core of computers
- Directory is a tool for classification of files
- CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) is a main concern

### Commands
- `pwd`: print working directory
- `ls`: file list in working directory
- `rm`: remove. use carefully.

### Using directory
- Managing OS equals to managing files
- To check where I am is the first thing to do before using directory
- `cd`: change directory
  - `cd /`: change to the root directory
  - `cd ~`: change to home directory in regardless of current directory

### Check current directory status and the format of commands
What files and directories in current directory?
- `ls`: file list
- `ls --help`: log how to use list command
- `ls -l`: file list with detailed info.
- `touch`: create a file
  - ex1) `touch showfile.txt`: create 'showfile.txt' file
  - ex2) `touch .hiddenfile.txt`: a file with prefix dot(.) is a hidden file
- `ls -a`: file list included hidden files
- `ls -R`: to check all directories belongs to current dir.

### Lifecycle of directory
- `mkdir <name>`: make a directory named as \<name> 
  - ex) `mkdir dummy`: make the directory named 'dummy'
- `cd <name>`: change to directory named as \<name>
    - `cd ./<name>`: the original command of `cd <name>`
- `mv`: move command also utilizes as 'name change'
  - `mv dummy2 dummy`: move dummy2 directory to dummy directory
- `rm`: remove, basically delete a file.
  - `rm -r dummy`: delete the directory named 'dummy'


### Relative and absolute paths
- `cd /`: change current dir. to top dir.
- `cd "/c/Users/Anonymous/Desktop/"`: change directory to given relative path
- `cd ..` or `cd ../`: change dir. to the parent dir.
- `cd ./TIL/2022`: cd using relative path
- `cd /Users/live/posix`: cd using absolute path


### File create and read
How to create, modify and delete files
- `nano`: call text editor
- `cat hello.txt`: get contents in hello.txt
- `touch`: to make a file

### File update (modify) and delete
- `^G`: help in nano editor
- `mv`: to chnage file name
- 'tab' key to use auto-fill function
- `rm` (without '-r'): file delete

### GUI vs. CLI
- CLI is needed for direct commands to contorl files and directories with more accuracy

### Excute the commands in sequence
- `;`(semicolon): separate between commands
- `mkdir dummy;cd dummy;touch hello.txt;cd ..;ls -R`: all written commands are excuted in sequence
#### Automation: stop if the command fails
`&&`: and operator excute the commands in sequence if the commands are done properly

### Further study subjects
- shell script to makes a computer auto
- Package, application, program
- package manager


___

### References
- [POSIX CLI1](https://opentutorials.org/module/3747)
