[TIL on May 17th, 2022](../../TIL/2022/05-17-2022.md)
# **Git push**
***Need to be understood**

### What is `origin` in git?
> In Git, "origin" is a shorthand name for the remote repository that a project was originally cloned from.

> More precisely, it is used instead of that original repository's URL - and thereby makes referencing much easier.

> Note that origin is just a standard convention. We could rename it without losing any functionality.


<br>

### What is `push` in git?

#### NAME
> git-push: Update remote refs along with associated objects

#### SYNOPSIS
```shell
git push [--all | --mirror | --tags] [--follow-tags] [--atomic] [-n | --dry-run] [--receive-pack=<git-receive-pack>]
	   [--repo=<repository>] [-f | --force] [-d | --delete] [--prune] [-v | --verbose]
	   [-u | --set-upstream] [-o <string> | --push-option=<string>]
	   [--[no-]signed|--signed=(true|false|if-asked)]
	   [--force-with-lease[=<refname>[:<expect>]] [--force-if-includes]]
	   [--no-verify] [<repository> [<refspec>…​]]
```

#### DESCRIPTION
> Updates remote refs using local refs, while sending objects necessary to complete the given refs.

> When the command line does not specify what to push with <refspec>... arguments or --all, --mirror, --tags options, the command finds the default <refspec> by consulting remote.*.push configuration, and if it is not found, honors push.default configuration to decide what to push (See [git-config](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-config) for the meaning of push.default).

> When neither the command-line nor the configuration specify what to push, the default behavior is used, which corresponds to the simple value for push.default: the current branch is pushed to the corresponding upstream branch, but as a safety measure, the push is aborted if the upstream branch does not have the same name as the local one.

#### `--set-upstream`
> For every branch that is up to date or successfully pushed, add upstream (tracking) reference, used by argument-less [git-pull](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-pull) and other commands. For more information, see branch.<name>.merge in [git-config](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-config).

#### `git push origin`
> Without additional configuration, pushes the current branch to the configured upstream (branch.<name>.merge configuration variable) if it has the same name as the current branch, and errors out without pushing otherwise.

#### `git push origin HEAD`
> A handy way to push the current branch to the same name on the remote.
___

### References
- [What is the origin in Git?](https://www.git-tower.com/learn/git/glossary/origin#:~:text=In%20Git%2C%20%22origin%22%20is,but%20just%20a%20standard%20convention.)
- [git-push Document](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-push)