[TIL on May 24th, 2022](../../TIL/2022/05-24-2022.md)
# **PEP 8 – Style Guide for Python Code**
For today, I'm going to study about the naming convention for Function and Variable Names

### Index
> This document gives coding conventions for the Python code comprising the standard library in the main Python distribution. Please see the companion informational PEP describing style guidelines for the C code in the C implementation of Python.

> This document and PEP 257 (Docstring Conventions) were adapted from Guido’s original Python Style Guide essay, with some additions from Barry’s style guide [[1]](#references).

> This style guide evolves over time as additional conventions are identified and past conventions are rendered obsolete by changes in the language itself.

> Many projects have their own coding style guidelines. In the event of any conflicts, such project-specific guides take precedence for that project.

### [Naming convention](https://peps.python.org/pep-0008/#naming-conventions)
#### Function and Variable Names
> Function names should be lowercase, with words separated by underscores as necessary to improve readability.

> Variable names follow the same convention as function names.

> mixedCase is allowed only in contexts where that’s already the prevailing style (e.g. threading.py), to retain backwards compatibility.
___

### References
- [[1] Barry’s GNU Mailman style guide](http://barry.warsaw.us/software/STYLEGUIDE.txt)
- [PEP 8 – Style Guide for Python Code](https://peps.python.org/pep-0008/)