[TIL on May 20th, 2022](../../TIL/2022/05/05-20-2022.md)
# **Summarize about port**

### What is a port in computer networking?
> A port is a logical construct that identifies a specific process or a type of network service at the software level, within an operating system.

> A port is identified for each transport protocol and address combination by a 16-bit unsigned number, known as the port number.

#### A port number is always associated with:
> - an IP address of a host and;
> - the type of transport protocol (such as TCP and UDP) used for communication.

> It completes the destination or origination network address of a message.

<br>

### Purpose and usage of a port
> Specific port numbers are reserved to identify specific services so that an arriving packet can be easily forwarded to a running application.

> For this purpose, port numbers lower than 1024 identify the historically most commonly used services and are called the well-known port numbers. Higher-numbered ports are available for general use by applications and are known as ephemeral ports.

> Ports provide a multiplexing service for multiple services or multiple communication sessions at one network address. In the client–server model of application architecture, multiple simultaneous communication sessions may be initiated for the same service.

<br>

### Port forwarding
> Port forwarding is an application of network address translation (NAT) that redirects a communication request from one address and port number combination to another while the packets are traversing a network gateway, such as a router or firewall.

> Port forwarding allows external computers to connect to a specific computer or service within a private local-area network (LAN).

### Three types of the port forwarding
> - Local port forwarding
> - Remote port forwarding
> - Dynamic port forwarding

<br>

#### cf) TCP and UDP
> The most common transport protocols that use port numbers are the Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) and the User Datagram Protocol (UDP).

<br>

___

### Reference
- [Port (computer networking) from Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Port_(computer_networking))
- [Port forwarding](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Port_forwarding)