[TIL on July 3rd, 2022](../../TIL/2022/07/07-03-2022.md)
# **scanf**
- [boj.kr/10818](../../Problem%20Solving/boj/File%20input%20and%20output/10818-07-03-2022.cpp)

### Syntax
- The syntax of `scanf()` is:
```cpp
scanf(const char* format, ...);
```

<br>

### Parameters
The `scanf()` function takes the following parameters:
- format: pointer to a C-string that specifies *how to read the input*. It consists of format specifiers starting with %.
- ...: other additional arguments specifying the data to be printed. They occur in a sequence according to the format specifier.

<br>

### Return value
- If successful, it returns the number of receiving arguments successfully assigned
- If a matching failure occurs before the first receiving argument was assigned, returns 0
- If input failure occurs before the first receiving argument was assigned, EOF is returned

<br>

### Format String
The `format` parameter of `scanf()` can contain format specifiers that begin with %. The format string has the following parts:
- Non whitespace characters except `%` each of which consumes one identical character from the input stream. It can cause the function to fail if the next character on the stream does not compare equal.
- Whitespace character: All the consecutive whitespace characters are treated as a single whitespace character. Further, `'\n'`, `'\t'` and `' '` are considered the same.

#### Conversion specification
It follows the following format:
- Initial `%` character that specifies the beginning
- An optional `*` called assignment-suppression character. If this character is present, `scanf()` does not assign the result to any receiving argument.
- `width`: an optional positive integer number that specifies maximum field width. It specifies the maximum number of characters that `scanf()` is allowed to consume when doing the conversion specified by the current conversion specification.
- `length`: an optional length modifier specifying the size of the receiving argument
- `specifier`: a conversion format specifier
- `...`: other additional arguments for receiving data. They occur in a sequence according to the format specifier

<br>

### Format specifier prototype
- The general format of format specifier for `scanf()` is:
```cpp
%[*][width][length]specifier
```

### Common format specifiers
`%`: matches the literal %

`c`: matches a single character or multiple characters. If width is defined, it matches exactly width characters

`s`: matches consecutive non-whitespace characters. If width is defined, matches exactly width characters or until the first whitespace is found

`[set]`: matches a non-empty sequence of characters from the given set of characters. If ^ is present at the beginning of set, then all the characters not in set are matched

`d`:	matches a decimal integer

`i`:	matches an integer

`o`:	matches an unsigned octal integer

`X` or `x`:	matches an unsigned hexadecimal integer

`u`:	matches an unsigned decimal integer

`A` or `a`:	matches a floating-point number

`E` or `e`:	matches a floating-point number

`F` or `f`:	matches a floating-point number

`G` or `g`:	matches a floating-point number

`n`:	returns the number of characters read so far

`p`:	matches an implementation defined character sequence defining a pointer

___

### References
- [C++ scanf()](https://www.programiz.com/cpp-programming/library-function/cstdio/scanf#:~:text=The%20`scanf()`%20function%20in,in%20the%20cstdio%20header%20file.)